Here we report that intrasaccadic perception (seeing while the eyes move) triggers a constriction of the eye's pupil. We presented participants with sinusoid gratings that changed in polarity 150 times per second, or every 6.67 ms. At this speed, successive frames cannot be distinguished, and the flickering gratings were therefore perceived as homogeneous gray surfaces (%FigFusion::a). However, the flickering gratings contained two opposite motion signals (%FigBistable). In one condition, there was a brief moment during each saccade at which the eye's velocity matched the direction and speed of one of the grating's motion signals (%FigFusion::b). This resulted in a stable retinal image, in turn resulting in a brief-but-clear intrasaccadic percept. Relative to a control condition in which the saccade direction did not match the motion signal, this intrasaccadic percept triggered a slight pupillary constriction (%FigMainTrace).

To our knowledge, our study provides the first direct evidence for intrasaccadic perception that does not rely on subjective report. We did collect subjective ratings, which confirmed that participants saw an intrasaccadic percept (%FigRatings), but these ratings were collected after the experiment. Furthermore, our results show that intrasaccadic perception affects all stages of visual processing: from the reflexive pupillary response, as we report here, to conscious perception, as reported previously [@DeubelElsner1986Saccadic;@CastetMasson2000;@CastetJeanjean2002;@Garc2001;@CampbellWurtz1978]. The picture that emerges is that there is nothing special about intrasaccadic perception. Visual perception may not be fundamentally different when the eyes move, compared to when the eyes do not move.

So far, we have focused on the pupillary constriction that is triggered by intrasaccadic perception (i.e. the difference between lines in %FigMainTrace). But saccades are usually followed by a pronounced constriction, also without intrasaccadic perception (i.e. the overall negative deflection in %FigMainTrace). Zuber and colleagues [-@Zuber1966Pupil]+[; see also @Mathôt2015Prep;@Wang2015Prep] already noticed this, but attributed it to changes in accommodation that might accompany gaze shifts (i.e. the pupil near reflex). However, based on recent(ish) advances in pupillometry, we suggest that post-saccadic pupillary constriction may directly reflect intrasaccadic perception--both when consciously perceived, and when not consciously perceived.

As first documented by Van de Kraats, Smit, and Slooter [-@Van+de+kraats1977], any kind of change in visual input triggers a pupillary constriction, even when overall brightness does not change. For example, when you look at a checkerboard that changes polarity (the dark squares become bright, and vice versa), your pupil briefly constricts, before returning to its normal size [@Slooter1980;@Ukai1985]. The origin of this phenomenon is unclear. According to Barbur, Keenleyside, and Thompson [-@BarburKeenleyside1987]+[; cited in @Sahraie1997], it may result from changes in neural activity that occur when visual input changes. This may cause a temporary reduction of the inhibition of the pathway that drives the pupillary sphincter muscle, thus causing a brief constriction. Alternatively, as we have recently suggested, pupillary constriction to visual change may simply reflect the asymmetry of the pupillary light response [@Mathôt2013Plos]: Dilation in response darkness is slower than constriction in response to brightness. Because visual changes are generally a mix of local increases and decreases in brightness, the combined pupillary response may be an initial constriction (to local brightness increases) that disappears as dilation (to local brightness decreases) catches up. But, whatever the cause, it is clear that the pupil constricts in response to changes in visual input.

Our interpretation of the postsaccadic pupillary response (%FigMainTrace) is therefore as follows. Visual input changes when the eyes move, and this triggers a pupillary constriction, just like a checkerboard inversion does. Usually, these saccade-related visual changes are predictable, and are therefore not consciously perceived as changes in the environment. However, when there is an unusual intrasaccadic percept, such as in our experiment, there is an additional visual change that triggers additional pupillary constriction. This unusual intrasaccadic percept is (by definition) unpredictable, and therefore gives rise to a conscious intrasaccadic percept. In other words, the slight additional constriction that is triggered by intrasaccadic perception reflects the tip of the iceberg: It corresponds to those visual changes that violate predictions of what visual input during saccades should be like [for similar ideas, see e.g. @Clark2013;@Mackay1972;@ReganNoë2001].

In summary, we have shown that intrasaccadic perception triggers a pupillary constriction, or rather strengthens the pupillary constriction that is generally observed after saccadic eye movements. To our knowledge, this is the first direct evidence for intrasaccadic perception that does not rely on subjective report. Furthermore, and in line with many others, we have suggested that intrasaccadic perception is best understood in terms of predictive coding: The retinal motion that occurs during saccades is not consciously perceived because it is predictable, and unlikely to reflect something in the environment. Predictive coding readily explains why we appear to be blind during saccades, yet readily perceive unusual things that happen while the eyes move.
