When you look at yourself in the mirror, it seems that you make no eye movements. And that is odd, because everyone else does.

The inability to see your own saccadic eye movements is a simple yet powerful demonstration of saccadic suppression: You generally do not perceive events that occur while your eyes are moving, including (tautologically) your own saccades. Phrased differently, the retinal-image motion that results from saccades seems to be suppressed, so that it is not consciously perceived. Saccadic suppression is often considered a mechanism that prevents you from seeing the world move when your eyes move [e.g., @RossBurrMorrone1996]. However, this functional interpretation is controversial [e.g. @Castet2010;@ReganNoë2001], and here we use saccadic suppression as an umbrella term for various findings that show that vision is impaired around the time of saccades.

Saccadic suppression affects most if not all aspects of visual processing. Psychophysical studies have shown that visual sensitivity is reduced during a ± 100 ms window around saccades [@Zuber1966Visual;@Diamond2000;@Volkmann1978], especially for stimuli with a low spatial frequency [@BurrMorroneRoss1994]. Neurophysiological studies have shown that stimuli presented during that same window elicit reduced neural activity in many visual brain areas [@Bremmer2009;@Thiele2002]. Saccadic suppression even affects the pupillary light response: The pupillary constriction that is triggered by a flash of light is reduced when the flash occurs around the time of a saccade [@Zuber1966Pupil].

The finding that saccadic suppression starts already before the eyes set in motion has inspired the hypothesis that it results from an active mechanism that relies on knowledge of intended movement [i.e. a corollary discharge or efference copy; @Sperry1950;@Von+holst1950]. According to the active-suppression hypothesis, when a saccade is prepared, motor areas inform visual areas of the intended movement [reviewed in @CrapseSommer2008], and these briefly become silent in response.

However, sometimes you can see while the eyes move (intrasaccadic perception), and this is not easily explained by the active-suppression hypothesis. That intrasaccadic perception can even be very conspicuous was elegantly shown by Campbell and Wurtz [-@CampbellWurtz1978]. In their experiment, participants sat in the dark and made a saccade. Crucially, if the experimental room was illuminated during the saccade, participants perceived a smeared-out image of the room. In other words, participants clearly saw an intrasaccadic percept that, according to the active-suppression hypothesis, should have been suppressed. But this only happened when the illumination period fell entirely within the saccade. If the room was also briefly illuminated before and after the saccade, smearing was no longer perceived, and participants perceived a static image of the room. In other words, intrasaccadic perception occurred only when there was no pre- or postsaccadic visual stimulation; otherwise, saccadic 'omission' occurred. Intrasaccadic perception has also been demonstrated with stimuli that move too rapidly to be seen with static eyes (e.g., a vertical grating that moves across a display with a speed of 400 °/s). Saccades can make such stimuli visible by reducing retinal-image motion: When you make a saccade in the direction of the stimulus' movement (i.e. orthoginal to the grating's orientation), the velocity of the saccade briefly reduces (or even cancels) the retinal speed of the stimulus, which is consequently perceived as a static or moving percept, depending on the stimulus and the eye movement's velocity [@DeubelElsner1986Saccadic;@CastetMasson2000;@Garc2001]. Phrased differently, a saccade can make a normally invisible stimulus visible by briefly reducing, or even canceling, its retinal speed. This is a striking phenomenon that we will use in the present study as well. (We also provide demonstration software, as described under Methods.)

The finding that intrasaccadic perception occurs *unless* there is pre- or postsaccadic visual input has inspired the passive-making hypothesis, which posits that saccadic suppression has two distinct components [@CampbellWurtz1978;reviewed in @Castet2010]. The first, more properly called saccadic 'omission', is that we are not normally aware of the retinal-image motion that occurs during saccades. According to the passive-masking hypothesis, saccadic omission occurs because you cannot see a brief stimulus (such as an intrasaccadic percept) when it is preceded and/ or followed by another stimulus; that is, saccadic omission would arise through forward and backward masking by pre- and postsaccadic visual input [@Enns2000Masking]. The second component of saccadic suppression is that visual sensitivity is reduced around the time of saccades [@Zuber1966Visual]. According to the passive-masking hypothesis, this reduced sensitivity results from shearing forces that act on the retina when the eyes accelerate or decelerate. These shearing forces would have an effect similar to that of a brief luminance decrement, which in turn would lead to reduced sensitivity around the time of saccades [@Poot1997;@Castet2010]. Crucially, this reduced sensitivity would not be related to saccadic omission; that is, it does not explain why we do not see the world move when our eyes move.

There are thus two main findings: Visual sensitivity is reduced around the time of saccades (i.e. saccadic suppression), as emphasized by the active-suppression hypothesis; but sometimes, intrasaccadic perception can be very conspicuous (i.e. no saccadic omission), as emphasized by the passive-masking hypothesis. In our view, this debate has been obfuscated by vehicle-content confusion: the assumption that we consciously perceive (content) our retina (vehicle). Although we suspect that most researchers would reject this assumption when made explicit, it is nevertheless the basis of the question why we do not we see movement when our eyes move--a question that implies that conscious perception directly reflects the retinal image. We believe that it is more fruitful to think about saccadic suppression in terms of predictive coding [similar ideas have been proposed in different contexts and using different terminology by e.g. @Clark2013;@Mackay1972;@ReganNoë2001].

According to predictive coding, the fact that we do not perceive retinal motion during saccades is explained as follows: Retinal image motion is a predictable consequence of saccades, therefore offers no evidence for motion in the outside world, and therefore does not lead to perception of motion. This also explains why weak stimuli presented around the time of saccades are often not perceived [the classic saccadic suppression finding, cf. @Zuber1966Visual]: The visual system assumes that changes in visual input around the time of saccades do not reflect real stimuli, but are due to the saccades themselves. And considerable evidence to the contrary is required to break this assumption. This explanation is analogous to that offered for the finding that people often fail to detect stimulus displacements across saccades [@Deubel1996Blanking; reviewed in @MathôtTheeuwes2011VisStab].

Similarly, according to predictive coding, the fact that some stimuli can be seen during saccades is explained as follows: When retinal image motion during a saccade strongly violates the prediction, this offers evidence for something 'unusual' in the outside world, and therefore leads to an intrassacadic percept. This explains why intrasaccadic perception is possible, and can even be very conspicuous, but occurs only in contrived laboratory settings that violate your expectations of what the world is like.

The predictive-coding hypothesis is similar to the active-suppression hypothesis in that it supposes a role for an extraretinal signal (i.e. the intended eye movement). However, this signal is not used to suppress vision, but to predict the retinal image motion that the intended eye movement will bring about [cf. @ReganNoë2001]. Predictive coding is also similar to the passive-masking hypothesis in that it explains why intrasaccadic perception does not arise when there is a pre- or postsaccadic image [@CampbellWurtz1978]: A brief burst of visual input that is preceded or followed by a mask is unlikely to reflect a real stimulus, because real things do not generally behave this way. As proposed by Clark [-@Clark2013], the visual system may embody a basic knowledge of what the world is like ('hyperpriors'), which prevents us from perceiving improbable things.

Here we aim to provide a direct demonstration of intrasaccadic perception that does not rely on subjective report. To this end, we used a paradigm similar to that used by Castet and Masson [-@CastetMasson2000], and measured pupillary responses to intrasaccadic stimuli. Under normal conditions, centrally presented visual stimuli trigger a pupillary constriction, even when there is no change in overall luminance [e.g., @Gamlin1998;@Slooter1980;@Ukai1985]. Therefore, we predicted that an intrassacadic stimulus, which in our view is not fundamentally different from any other stimulus, would also trigger a pupillary constriction [or rather a strengthening of the pupillary constriction that is generally observed after a saccade; @Mathôt2015Prep;@Wang2015Prep;@Zuber1966Pupil]. In addition to providing the first direct evidence for intrasaccadic perception that does not rely on subjective report, this would show that intrasaccadic perception is similar to regular perception, not only in eliciting a conscious percept, but also in triggering a reflexive pupillary response.
