## Preprocessing of pupil and eye-position signal

All signals were locked to the moment that the eyes crossed the vertical (for horizontal saccades) or horizontal (for vertical saccades) meridian (from now on: mid-saccade point). Mean pupil size from 105 to 95 ms before the mid-saccade point was takes as a baseline, and all pupil size measures are reported in area (i.e. not diameter) relative to this baseline [cf. @Mathôt2013Plos]. We analyzed pupil size from 300 ms before until 1200 ms after the mid-saccade point. Pupil size during blinks was reconstructed using cubic-spline interpolation [@Mathôt2013Reconstruct]. Pupil size was not smoothed. To obtain an acceptable noise level in eye-velocity profiles, eye position was smoothed using an 11 ms Hanning window.

## Trial-exclusion criteria

Trials were discarded when any of the following criteria was met: Saccade latency was below 0 ms (i.e. anticipation) or above 2000 ms; Peak saccade velocity could not be determined or was unrealistically high (> 1000 °/s; usually due to data loss); The eyes deviated more than 3.3° from the fixation dot before the saccade (excluding a 200 ms around the mid-saccade point). The eyes deviated more than 3.3° from the saccade target after the saccade (again excluding a 200 ms around the mid-saccade point). No participants were excluded. In total, 4001 trials (83.3%) remained for further analysis.

## Position artifacts in pupil size

++In video-based eye trackers, changes in eye position cause artifactual changes in measured pupil size. That is, when the eyes move, the angle from which the camera records the eye changes, and this may lead the eye tracker to register changes in pupil size, even when pupil size remains constant. A common way to correct for position artifacts is to determine a linear regression that predicts (baseline) pupil size from horizontal (*X*) and vertical (*Y*) eye position. The *X* and *Y* slopes can then be used to 'regress out' eye position from pupil size [e.g. @Brisson2013Errors].++

++In our data, position artifacts are visible as rapid changes in pupil size during the saccade (%FigDirectionTrace::a,d,j,g); these changes are too rapid to be real. But when we tried to eliminate position artifacts through linear regression, we noticed the following: When fixating the top of the screen, the pupil was larger than when fixating the bottom of the screen (data not shown), which suggests that pupil size is *overestimated* when fixating the top of the screen. But when participants made a top-to-bottom saccade, pupil size increased even further (%FigDirectionTrace::j), which suggests that pupil size is *underestimated* when fixating the top of the screen. In other words, the direction of the position artifact seems to depend on whether you look at baseline pupil size, or at the rapid change that occurs during the saccade. This implies that there are two distinct effects of eye position on pupil size as measured by the eye tracker: The first is a real effect, so that (in our case) the pupil slightly dilates when fixating the top of the screen, perhaps due to effort or the eye's musculature; the second is an artifact, so that (in our case) the size of the pupil is underestimated when fixating the top of the screen. We are currently investigating this issue further, but for now we note that: not all effects of eye position on pupil size are artifactual (as generally assumed); and any corrective technique that assumes this is problematic.++

++Therefore, we decided not to correct our pupil-size measurements for position artifacts, and absolute changes in pupil size that occur while the eyes are moving (as shown in %FigDirectionTrace::a,d,j,g) should be interpreted with caution.++

## Statistical analyses

Unless otherwise specified, we used linear mixed-effects models (LME) with by-participant random intercept and by-participant random slopes for all predictors. Identical analyses were conducted separately for each 1 ms sample. We did not estimate *p*-values, but considered effects reliable if they correspond to *t* > 2 for at least 200 consecutive 1 ms samples [cf. @Mathôt2014JVis]. However, we emphasize effect sizes and overall patterns.
